# Energy-Efficiency-Evaluation-of-Bluetooth-5-BLE-5-Technology
This project work describes the evaluation of the energy efficiency of recently specified Bluetooth 5 ( BLE 5) technique’s coded mode. This work analyses both the analytical, and experimental performance of the energy efficiency of BLE 5 (S = 8) coded mode solution. It includes analytical modelling, Matlab programming, and real-life measurement using Nordic semiconductor nRF52840 development kit. The performance of lately revealed BLE 5 coded technique is compared to the performance of the BLE 4, which is seen today to be mostly used in case of commercial wireless devices. To improve the communication range of this low-power technique for IoT purposes, BLE 5 coded mode uses a forward error correction (FEC) method. Because of coding overhead, the packet length increases, and the throughput decreases. In this project work, the frequency 2.4 GHz is considered. The LE Coded PHY is responsible for adding two steps into the packet transmissions, and reception. Firstly, FEC method is applied to the packet so that the receiver can make a correction of bit errors when the packet is received, and would be capable to improve the packet error rate (PER). Secondly, a pattern mapper method is applied to the packet. This FEC, and pattern mapping results in getting better sensitivity. The experimental results from this project work show that BLE 5 technique provides better packet error rate (PER) performance, communication range performance, and received signal strength indicator (RSSI) performance than BLE 4, and BLE 5 consumes less energy than BLE 4, which was found out using analytical modelling.   
